
Machine Learning Project- Loan Repayment Prediction

This was a Machine Learning course project. The project aimed to predict the loan repayment using the loans datasets. The first step was to preprocess the train and test data. The features were numerical, binary, and categorical variables. Standardization is performed using Sklearn StandardScaler for numerical columns, label encoder for binary columns, and got dummies of categorical columns. To get a better accuracy bagging and parameter optimization were used. If a column had more than 80% null values, it was dropped. Otherwise, the null values were filled with the training data with means or medians of the given column. After that, the values were normalized using z-score normalization and the data are scaled between [0,1] to make the algorithm run faster and achieve better accuracy. Then SelectKBest class was used to score our features using the f_classif function. The best 50 features were selected and removed from the rest of them since we received the best F-beta score using k as 50. After the loan_status column was dropped, Stratified k=10 fold was performed for splitting the data as; X_train, X_valid,y_train, y_valid. Then the models were applied. The models were Decision Tree classifier, Logistic Regression, MLP classifier, and the Naïve Bayes Gaussian classifier. The Naïve Bayes Gaussian classifier was chosen since it had the best beta F-Beta (macro) score. Bagging is applied and the NB Gaussian classifier is used as the base classifier. The parameters were optimized to provide us the best classification results. 
